On the same day this week that the Spanish authorities stormed the offices of the Catalan regional government, detaining at least 14 people, a less-noticed raid took place.

The puntCat foundation, which oversees the registry of websites with the “.cat” domain, tweeted Wednesday that its offices had also been raided and that one of its senior executives had been arrested.

An arrest. Cats. The internet. Naturally, we were curious.

Cats, of course, have a storied history on the internet. Cat videos were among the first clips to go viral on YouTube. BuzzFeed once told a reporter that cat posts generated 3.5 times more traffic than the average post.

There flourished internet cats that wanted cheeseburgers, internet cats that were grumpy, internet cats that played keyboards, and an internet cat with an enviable life of the mind.

In 2013, a cat food company, Friskies, promulgated a rumor that 15 percent of all internet traffic was cat-related. That this was even believable speaks to cats’ status as rulers of the digital jungle.

Almost all sites with the .cat suffix belong to the Catalan-speaking community thanks to the efforts of the puntCAT (“dot-cat” in Catalan), the foundation approved in 2005 to manage the domain’s registry by the global Internet Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers. That made it one of the first domains to explicitly refer to a language and culture, paving the way for others, when it first appeared in 2006.

Catalan is spoken in Catalonia, the Spanish region that includes Barcelona and where political leaders have been pushing for years to secede from the rest of Spain. Madrid has declared that the secession effort violates the country’s constitution, and have cracked down on attempts to hold a referendum on secession on Oct. 1.

In a letter to ICANN, the foundation said that the Spanish authorities had asked it to “block all .cat domain names that may contain any kind of information about the forthcoming independence referendum.”

“We are being requested to censor content and suppress freedom of speech,” the organization added.